## DISCUSSION BILL OF RIGHTS

Is free speech absolute?  How does the concept of free speech affect business?
  - No free speech is not absolution. There are many restrictions that allow freedom of speech to not encroach and overrule other laws and regulations; because of this there are many instances when your "freedom of speech" can be stopped and overruled. For example businesses can have two legs in this debate. One is there own employees and two random people on there property. In the restrictions of freedom of speech are two main issues place and manner. Place can refer to anything between a public street or someone's private property both have there own restrictions that can overrule said "freedom of speech". Manner often refers too how expression can take place; being if you are descent and not disturbing the peace while yelling at people with explicit language. Although some of this is self explanatory some of it is not at all. For example having a tattoo that goes against someone's religion could in fact be breaking the "manner" that is put in place because it is offensive.

Why is the case of Brandenburg vs Ohio important?  
  - The most important notion of the case is that although it was likely that everyone at the KKK event could be intending to harm or hurt and could be thinking about conducting themselves in an indecent manor they did not. There was no mention of hurting or violating laws. Instead it was a demonstration for a group that although crazy and with flawed thinking still had the write to protest and freely speak about the issues they brought up. As long as there were no intentions to break law by presenting danger to other people.

What is symbolic speech?  Would an employee with excessive tattoos constitute free speech?  Would an employer have to allow someone with excessive tattoos to work for them?  Explain
  - Symbolic speech often consists of non verbal communication, and if you took any psychology courses in your life you will know that there are many, but often times wearing certain things, burning certain items, are the most common. Now as far as excessive tattoos go its depends on the tattoo in most legal matters. If the tattoo or "symbolic speech" goes against the proper way of conducting yourself in a public setting; i.e. its offensive or explicit then yes there is grounds to not allow that person to work. But as far as just having tattoos that could just be a bunch of trees or squares there would be nothing that would constitute indecent public appearance or manner. Now because indecent public appearance or manner is so loose of a term it is "legal" to say someone's tattoos could be considered offensive and not hire them or fire them because of that. 
