## INDIVIDUAL ASSIGNMENT | BUSINESS FORMATION

Now that we have learned about the different business forms, let's apply these concepts to some business scenarios.  Be sure to give your reasons for your answers in about 300 words:

Darnell and Eliana are partners in D &E Designs, an architectural firm.  When Darnell dies, his widow claims that as Darnell's heir, she is entitled to take his place as Eliana's partner or to receive a share of the firm's assets.  Is she right?  Why or why not?
  - This would depend on the agreement that was originally signed but often in the agreement there is a clause that details what happens with the deceased shares. If Darnell's widow is named as the heir in that agreement or is in the will then she does have claim over the shares in the partnership. If in the agreement there is a sections that stats when a partner dies there will be an option to bring in someone new then Darnell's widow would not have claim to the share because it was stated as so in the agreement that Darnell agreed too.

Gomer, Harry, and Ida are members of Jeweled Watches, LLC.  What are their options with respect to the management of their firm?  Explain your answer.
  - There are two different methods for management in an LLC, member managed and manager managed. As suggested by the names one is where the members of the LLC agree to play a role in the day to day management of the company, and all are authorized to act as agents of the company. This is often a default for an LLC. A manger managed LLC is where the members no longer have an active role in the day to day operations. Instead they would hire management and delegate to those managing parties.  

Discuss some of the advantages and disadvantages of corporations, partnerships and sole proprietorships from the aspect of taxation, continuity, liability, acquiring capital.
  - A sole proprietorship is an unincorporated entity that does not exist apart from its sole owner. This is often an easy way to create a legal business "lass paper work" involved because its only sole ownership. The sole owner would therefore control everything and get all profits. When a sole proprietor dies the company no longer exists.
  - A partnership is two or more people agreeing to operate a business for profit. There are multiple types of partnerships but the main principle stays the same. Each partner has the right to participate in the management of the business and to share equally in the profits and losses, but if agreed in writing the shares can be unequal. If there is no agreement that states otherwise the partnership will end if one partner dies or withdraws.   
  - A corporation is legal entity, existing separately from its owners. Corporations are owned by shareholders who do not participate in the management of the operation. A board of directors is appointed to handle management responsibilities. Corporations are legal entities separate and apart from the shareholders. This often protects the assets of the shareholder from liability of the corporation. The death or withdrawal of a shareholder will not end the corporation.

If you were opening a business, what type of business form would you choose (please imagine an actual business).  
  - Most likely I would choose a S Corp because that would allow for easy expansion along with a structure that would allow for shares and investors but not be too complicated since the company would be small. Then later it could be changed. Considering all my potential business ideas would be investor involved this would be the best option for having investors and employees.
