## DISCUSSION THE CONSTITUTION

Why would a local company not want the federal government to make a law that applies to all states?
  - Because they could be operating a business that violates that federal law, but does not violate the local or state law. Also they would have no choice but to go along with that has been passed at that federal level. The only option would be to move to a another country that doesn't have as many law restricting your business. This issue is why many people think that each state should have more power and take up a lot of what the federal government has enforced, so that if you do not like what laws are in your state then you can just go somewhere else. The major problem with that is then borders between states, since one state might not like the rules that are in the state next to them.

The video shares stories of how a business like The Harborside Company in California can be a situation where the state and federal laws at odds. What are some examples from history that show how state and federal laws have found a balance?
  - The golden gate bridge is an example where the bridge was created with the local state money but was mainly put in place to connect federal roads. Now although it was a federal project the benefit to the state that provided the money had an equal amount of benefit. This of course is the common denominator among states when making decisions will everyone benefit equally?

Do you agree with the idea that states are “laboratories of democracy?” List some examples of when good ideas have risen up from the states. Can you think of some bad ideas that came from the states?
  - Voting rights, along with the ending of slavery have originally been a state by state and have succeeded because of that. Many issues that apply in one state often seem completely crazy to the people of other states so they are afraid of what could happen. Most recently the legalization of mamajuana in certain states has made it more normal in others. This same kind of problem solving is very useful because in some states they cant afford to make a mistake, and try and correct that.
