## Individual Assignment | Federalism & The Commerce Clause

What is meant by Federalism?  Why do we give power to the states at all? What is the reasoning behind state power?
  - The idea that the power is divided among the federal government and the states. The purpose of giving the state power is two allow for difference in rules and laws along with take pressure off of the federal government. If the federal government controlled everything then every small issue that the state deals with would have to be a federal issue. The main reason to give more power to the states is to basically conform to the people that inhabit that state. As we all know California is completely different then Montana. This is because the size, location, and the people among other differences.

What happened in the Wickard v. Filburn case? How did his case affect other states? What is interstate commerce?
  - Filburn was a farmer that was finned because he was growing to much corn on his land. Now although he was not selling this corn to other people and was instead just using it to feed his animals he was still in breach of the rules that were put in place to stabilize the price of corn. The interstate commerce is basically a clause that was put in place to make sure that the rules and regulations of one state would not effect the rules and regulations of another state. So for example if Montana had no environmental laws and someone decided to grow corn in Montana and then sell it in another state that did have environmental laws then there would be a problem. Not only could they possibly grow the corn much cheaper and therefore price the competitors out of the market but also that corn would not conform to the environmental laws in the state that it was being sold.

What is meant by the dormant commerce clause?  Provide an example.
  - The purpose of the dormant commerce clause is to stop the states from discriminating against interstate commerce. So for example Florida is a state that has a main export of oranges to the other states. If another state started to sell at the same production as Florida and even started selling there oranges to Florida then the orange market in Florida could be threatened. Now although this is true due to the dormant commerce clause Florida is not aloud to stop the importing of those other oranges even though it could effect there market. This stops states from leveraging there product over out of state product.

Watch the video below.  Discuss the concept of precedence in case law.  Why do the courts maintain precedence in some cases while not the following precedence in others?  
  - Precedence is the idea that because a court has ruled in a certain way before that in other separate cases they should take that ruling into consideration if it applies. In brown vs board of education precedence was put in place because of the issues that faced the country. Not only was this a common issue but it was seen as an issue that would continue to be put to the test through time. Some reasons a court would not rule in the favor of a precedence are mostly relating to change. The law could change, the ideas of what is right and wrong could change etc. and that precedence that was set could no longer apply and would be outside the law.
