## DISCUSSION MANAGED NETWORK DEVICES

What is the difference between Managed and Unmanaged network switches?
  - The simple explanation is that unmanaged allows for plug and play operation. There is no need to configuration or upload/change of switch OS. Managed is just a bit more complicated and often doesn't just plug and play like unmanaged.
  - Unmanaged switches are simple, and connect to other ethernet devices with a fixed configuration that cannot be changed. They are often used in small networks, so residential or just simple small business. Managed switches allow you to manage and configure the device along with monitor the settings of the LAN. This can mean control over traffic, prioritizing, or create new virtual LAN's. With managed prioritizing you can greatly improve your performance and ensure that certain channels have that best performance. Also you can remotely troubleshoot the network making it easier to find issues that are effecting the network.

What is a network management system?
  - A network management system is designed for monitoring, optimizing, and maintaining a network. This often is achieved through software and hardware but most management systems are software based. Small networks like residential or home do not need a network management system. For large networks like enterprise and large business then it is very important to have a system for managing. Data centers and corporate networks have thousands of connected devices so it is very important to have an effective way to manage them. Network management systems provide simple and effective ways to locate, update, and repair network equipment.

Network management system comparison
  - There are 3 main management systems that I have come across that seem to be the best and most popular. First we have SolarWinds network performance monitor which is praised for its automatic alerts for condition based alerts and connecting devices. There are many great features including NetPath that allows you to trace packet transfers which is great for diagnosing issues. Its also highly graphical with a great main dashboard with usage stats, devices, location maps, etc. It however is not cloud based which means you have to maintain a server to run it.
  - Next we have Datadog Network performance Monitoring which is a cloud based service makingit much easier to setup and manage. Included with this feature is that you can manage the network anywhere which is great for off site problem solving. The access method is the same as SolarWinds as it used SNMP for live statistics. Datadog includes a great log consolidator that will track down the system logs on your network and interpret their records for analysis. It seems to be more geared to network mapping and lacks some of the key monitoring features that SolarWinds had.
  - Lastly we have Atera which is also cloud based and focuses on being suitable for all sizes of businesses and networks. There main selling point is that they have a great remote monitoring and management system with a high degree of automation. The service monitors the network and only requires attention when a problem comes up. it also has a highly graphical dashboard which makes it easy for someone to log on and see what is happening or what an alert details about a potential problem.
