## DISCUSSION | CRIMINAL LAW

Provide your thoughts on why Berney Madoff was able to continue his Ponzi scheme as long as he did.  Why are whistleblowers often ignored?
  - Reputation seems to be the main factor that was at play in this scheme. Not only did Madoff grow his scheme through reputation in close personal relationships, but those close personal relationships just amplified the reputation with larger firms. The reputation is what kept many people from suspecting the scheme because many of the people that you would talk to about the possible scheme denied it because they had such a high opinion of him. This is why whistleblowers were often ignored because no one would believe such an outlandish claim against someone that they had trust in.
  - The other important factor that was discussed in the video is that the SCC was not equipped to find such frauds. Instead they are just there to look of paper work and look for common easy to spot fraudulent activities like insider trading or simple manipulation of documents. None were trained to look more closely at dealings that he had had with other traders or whether or not his results were even possible with the money that he supposedly had.

The Carnival video brings up an example of how companies may pay penalties as part of doing business.  Do you think that is the case here- can you provide another example of a company that continues to pay fines like this?
  - So pretty much any financial company has opted to violate the law in order to save money and role the dice on whether they will get caught or not. But as stated in the video many of these companies are making far more then what is required to be fined by the law. The same has been said with large social media companies that have violated information acts. Many of the fines didn't do any to the company other then take some money out of there prepared in case of fines account. This same idea is put in place to anyone that has money and drives a fast car. Often then someone going over the speed limit gets pulled over they either pay the fine like its nothing, or get the charges reduced enough so its just a fine. Nothing really happens to them because its the price they are willing to pay for going faster then permitted by law.

If there was clear evidence that one individual caused the environmental damage- would they get prison time?  Or would the company just pay a fine?  Or both?  What do you think and why?  
  - Well often with these types of issues its an environmental law firm that is suing the suspected company, and there is then many variables that come into play. Depending on the extent of the environmental damage the consequences will vary. For example if a company was being sued by an environmental law firm because they polluted a lake by not following regulations on the building they had out in the woods, then most likely the business would just pay a settlement to the environmental law firm that would go to cleaning said lake plus a little more for environmental projects. But if the damage was larger and was seen to be caused by deliberate actions by a hire up then yes jail time is often a factor in large environmental damage cases.

Do a little research and provide another example of a real-life example of a company or a business person committing a criminal act described in chapter 5.  
  - "In September 2016 Wells Fargo, at that time the world’s largest bank by market capitalization, was enveloped in scandal when news broke that thousands of its employees had created over 1.5 million checking and savings accounts and 500,000 credit cards that its customers never authorized." These acts were caused by the companies mandates and compensation incentives program for employees to create these fraudulent accounts. The company was fined $185 million, and 5,300 employees were fired. 
