## DISCUSSION | AGENCY RELATIONSHIPS

How do you decide if someone is an independent contractor or an employee?  Who is responsible for deciding?
  - An employee is someone that performs duties that are controlled by others, and is given training to complete those duties. Along with this they are only allowed to work for a single employer at a time. independent contractors on the other hand operate under there own business name, and could have there own employees. They also have there own advertised services, along with having more then one employer. When hiring the employee is when it is decided. If you are hiring someone for completing a set of duties already outlined in a specific time and not controlling them as they complete those duties then they are an independent contractor.

Vivian, the owner of Wonder Goods Company, employs Zena as an administrative assistant.  Knowing that a project was under a time constraint, to get things moving in Vivian's absence, and without authority, Zena represents herself as the owner of the company and signs a promissory note in Vivian's name.  In what circumstances is Vivian responsible for the note?
  - Considering that Zena is an agent for the principle, Vivian, she would be acting in the principles best interest or under there instructions. This means that the principle is responsible for the consequences. But because Zena was doing this "without authority" she is therefore not following the instructions and therefore not acting in accordance to what it means to be an agent of a principle.

What does it mean that an agent has a duty of loyalty?  Can you provide an example?
  - You have to act in the benefit for the employer, you cant act in your own benefit or your own interest. You also have to "care" about your duties as an employee, which means completely tasks to the best of your ability. This also goes along with the duties to keep the principle informed of what is going on, and obey the instructions by that principle. So for example if an employee where to sell more items at a lower cost just to get there own sale numbers up and therefore increase there wages that would not be in loyalty to the principle.
