## INDIVIDUAL ASSIGNMENT EMPLOYMENT LAW

How does an employer decide to pay an employee a salary or hourly?  Provide an example of positions that might be paid salary and hourly?
  - The classification of the job is a big part in deciding what the type of payment will be. Since there are rules and regulations that go along with employees and how much there entitled to work and be payed for that work the choice on what kind of payment is also outlined. Hourly workers are often time based jobs where your pay is determined on how much time you work. So often manual labor, customer service, and food service take up the large portion of this type. The other option is an exempt employee which is referred to in the rules in regulations as a salary position that does not define there pay by there hourly work. Instead this is a set amount of money that is given to an employee in an agreement for there services. Often these positions are higher paying and also degree based jobs that are of a executive or administrative nature.

What is the Family Medical Leave act?  What are the situations that are covered?  Is this paid leave?  
  - The family medical leave act entitles employees to take off time for family or medical reasons. This basically guaranties that although you wont be payed while gone you will have a job when you get back. Health care coverage is continued under this act even though pay is not. Some examples of situations include: "birth of a child and to care for the newborn child within one year of birth", "placement with the employee of a child for adoption or foster care and to care for the newly placed child within one year of placement", "care for the employee’s spouse, child, or parent who has a serious health condition", "serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform the essential functions of his or her job", "Twenty-six workweeks of leave during a single 12-month period to care for a covered servicemember with a serious injury or illness if the eligible employee is the servicemember’s spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin (military caregiver leave)".  

What does At-Will Employment mean?
  - At-Will employment states that an employee can be fired at any time without reason, and the employee can also quit at any time without reason. Although this is something that is increasing in popularity and is often a bargaining chip employees can fight such an agreement. Although as stated above employee's can be fired any time without reason state and federal laws can protect employees from wrongful termination. So firing someone because of race, religion, citizenship, retaliation for performing a legally protected action, whistleblowing, disability, gender, age, physical health, sexual orientation, and other factors protected by labor laws.

Imagine a business in which the employees are unionized.  What are some things you need to consider as an Employer?  What are some rights you have as an Employee?
  - Unionized are a huge problem for employers for several reasons, but they are also necessary to keep wages fair in a sense. To start off unions allow for employees to band together and fight the employer as one. These "fights" can be about pay, hours, benefits, etc. The problem is that unions equalize pay. And although in many circumstances this is good, it can also be bad. Since employees are all payed the same there is no way to distinguish between well performing ones and bad ones. This is very clear in manual labor jobs where employees often use there union defined pay as a way to get around there poor work performance. If you want an example of this there are several working documentaries including one on Netflix called American Factory where you can see this effect in action.
  - As an employee you have the legal right to join or form a union without interference from the employer according to the national labor relations act.
